Editorial review: CSS anchor positioning 5: position try functionality (#33609)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/position-try/index.md

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- {{cssxref("position-try-order")}}
- {{cssxref("position-try-fallbacks")}}

## Syntax

```css
/* position-try-fallbacks only */
position-try: normal flip-block;
position-try: inset-area(top);
position-try: --custom-try-option;
position-try: flip-block flip-inline;
position-try: inset-area(top), inset-area(right), inset-area(bottom);
position-try: --custom-try-option1, --custom-try-option2;
position-try:
  normal flip-block,
  inset-area(right),
  --custom-try-option;

/* position-try-order and position-try-fallbacks */
position-try: normal none;
position-try:
  most-width --custom-try-option1,
  --custom-try-option2;
position-try:
  most-height flip-block,
  inset-area(right),
  --custom-try-option;

/* Global values */
position-try: inherit;
position-try: initial;
position-try: revert;
position-try: revert-layer;
position-try: unset;
```

### Values

See {{cssxref("position-try-order")}} and {{cssxref("position-try-fallbacks")}} for value descriptions.

> The `position-try` shorthand can specify values for `position-try-fallbacks`, or `position-try-order` and `position-try-fallbacks`, in that order. If `position-try-order` is omitted, it is set to the property's initial value, which is `normal`, meaning the position-try fallback options are tried in the order they appear in the property.

Reviewer: The question to answer in a different PR: If you reset a `position-try: most-width <long list of fallback options>` with `position-try: normal` with no list, i assume the whole list is obliterated. so, wouldn't `position-try: normal` be the same as `position-try: none`?

Author: Different PR ;-)

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Basic `position-try` usage

This demo shows the effect of `position-try`.

#### HTML

The HTML includes two {{htmlelement("div")}} elements that will become an anchor and an anchor-positioned element.

```html
<div class="anchor">⚓︎</div>

<div class="infobox">
  <p>This is an information box.</p>
</div>
```

#### CSS

In the CSS, the anchor is given an {{cssxref("anchor-name")}} and has a {{cssxref("position")}} value of `absolute` set on it. We position it in the top-half of the viewport using {{cssxref("top")}} and {{cssxref("left")}} values:

```css hidden
.anchor {
  font-size: 1.8rem;
  color: white;
  text-shadow: 1px 1px 1px black;
  background-color: hsl(240 100% 75%);
  width: fit-content;
  border-radius: 10px;
  border: 1px solid black;
  padding: 3px;
}
```

```css
.anchor {
  anchor-name: --myAnchor;
  position: absolute;
  top: 100px;
  left: 45%;
}
```

```css hidden
.infobox {
  color: darkblue;
  background-color: azure;
  border: 1px solid #ddd;
  padding: 10px;
  border-radius: 10px;
  font-size: 1rem;
  text-align: center;
}

form {
  position: fixed;
  bottom: 2px;
  right: 2px;
}
```

> We then include a custom try fallback option — `--custom-bottom` — which positions the element below the anchor and gives it an appropriate margin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then include a custom position option — `--custom-bottom` — which positions the element below the anchor and gives it an appropriate margin:
```

Author: updated
